# CS555 Course Project

## About

This project will involve analyzing GEDCOM files. [Wikipedia Page on GEDCOM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GEDCOM).

## Members

* Imran Ali
* Pridhvi Myneni - B.E. Computer Engineering exp Dec 2021
* Anjali Paliwal - B.E. Software Engineering exp May 2022
* Manthan Patel

## Developer Guidelines

* We'll be using Python & MongoDB for this project. Please familiarize yourself with both and install the following, preferably in this order:
  * MongoDB
  * MongoDB Compass (for easy viewing of the database)
  * Python 3.8 (not sure if necessary)
  * Anaconda (for environment/dependency management)
* Clone this repository
* `conda env create -f environment.yml`
  * If a new package is installed (prefer conda over pip) (all at the top level of the repo):
    * Edit environment.yml manually and add the package, optionally with the version, if significant
    * `conda deactivate`
    * `conda env remove -n CS555`
    * `conda env create -f environment.yml`
  * `conda activate CS555`
    * You will need to run this every time you open a new terminal
  * `conda develop gedutil` (after `cd`ing into the repo, at the top-level)
* `pre-commit install` (at the top level of the repo)
  * You will have to run this every time you clone the repo somewhere new

### Implementing a new user story

* Please create a branch off of `main` and name it `USXX`. Follow the structure from the existing implementation of US01 unless we decide to refactor, as a team
* After completing testing, please submit a pull request and wait for all other team members to approve it before merging it back into main. All testcases must pass. If they don't, we will rebase back to the last working commit and the pull request will have to be re-requested.
* The person submitting the pull request should complete the merge after everyone has marked it as approved
* The merge strategy will be merge, and not rebase.

### How to test

* `conda activate CS555`
* `cd CS555/tests`
* `python -m unittest`

## Commit Guidelines

We will be using commit messages of the following format:

```text
[TYPE] action-verb to start the header line

- Body bullet
- More body [oh look](https://example.com) - A link!
- Another bullet

You can also just write paragraphs...
```

For convenience, I won't be enforcing commit message guidelines using precommit scripts, but please follow carefully.

Types:

* [BUILD] - a build commit
* [BUG] - a bugfix
* [MERGE] - a merge commit. You can also just use the standard commit message that's autogenerated during merges
* [REFACTOR] - a commit for refactoring code.
* [DOCS] - a commit for updating documentation
* [MISC] - any commit that doesn't fall under the existing guidelines. Shouldn't be used often.

Please use commits as intended (just one change/commit). If you find yourself building something, fixing a bug, and refactoring all in one commit, stop and commit each change separately.

### Example Commit

```text
[BUILD] Implement tests for US02

- using test-first methodology for hw5
- input validation using regexs
- ready for development
```
